We're nearing the end of this module.
Obviously a lot of functionality of this application is still missing but this module is about the
routing, we'll add the functionality step-by-step throughout the course.
One thing that is still missing though is the authentication page, when I tap logout here,
I actually want to go to that authentication page and I already want to have some dummy authentication
flow here where I can't really authenticate but where I can fake that I can authenticate, so that we
can also control whether when the app starts, we see that discover or offers or bookings part or if we
just see the authentication page and we need to login first.
Now for that, we have that auth page here of course. I'll set the title to authenticate and I certainly
don't want to add my menu button here because you can't go anywhere if you're not authenticated. Instead
here I'll add a button, a normal button with a color of primary and I'll say login and later we'll add
a real login with user input and so on, for now it's just that button. When we press this button, I want
to execute onLogin and I want to flip something that actually does set me to login,
so simply a boolean that is switched to true
for now let's say. And for this, I'll add a new service, an auth service.
So with Ionic generate service, in my auth folder, I'll add a new auth service. So this will generate a
new auth service file in there, don't need the testing file and that auth service file for now will simply
have a user is authenticated property which is false as a default let's say and I will add a login
method here which sets user is authenticated to true and I'll add a logout method to that service which
when called will set user is authenticated back to false
so that we simply have that dummy authentication flow, that is all, nothing too fancy of course. Now on
login in the auth page component has to be added of course, this method has to be added here and now
here, I want to trigger the login method in my service. For that, I need to inject the auth service here,
auth service, make sure to add the import to the auth service file and in onLogin, I will simply call login
on my auth service.
Now one tiny thing I'll change is also I'll set a user is authenticated to a private property and
add a getter, get
user is authenticated and return
this user is authenticated, simply to wrap this so that we can't set this directly from outside but so
that we have to use the login or logout method. Simply a pattern which isn't too bad to use to make
sure you can't accidentally overwrite this to true or false from any other place in your app, you have
to go through login or logout instead.
So the auth page now has to on logging method added that will actually trigger the login method in the
auth service.
That's part number one
but right now, we never see the auth page of course and to see it,
I want to add a guard that prevents access to both my places and my bookings in cases where I'm not authenticated.
So that's the next thing we'll add.